---
template: post.jade
date: 2016-01-28
prettydate: January 28, 2016
title: Learning is Stressful, Martha Nussbaum is Good, and Help Me
---

Yesterday I made the following [facebook
status](https://www.facebook.com/srcreigh/posts/859462034166558):

> I hate that school forces me to learn five to seven separate sets of concepts in
> parallel, spread over four months. I could have accomplished all the things I
> accomplished in Waterloo's algorithms class in a couple weeks. I could have
> built the operating system that my operating systems class required me to build
> in a couple weeks. Yet I am forced to perform a "mental context switch" several
> times per day just in order to keep up with seven courses in parallel. What is
> beneficial about this? No "sane" person would read five fiction books by reading
> ch. 1 of the first book, followed by ch. 1 of the second book, etc., yet this is
> exactly what my school expects me to do. No wonder I am "insane".

It can feel good to complain, but this kind of thinking on its own is harmful.
The danger is that a sufficiently creative person can just say that every single
kind existence is bad for some reason&mdash;and then not exist in any meaningful
way.  The goal should be understanding, forming hypothesis about how to do it
better, and testing them. The relevant (and challenging) questions, then, are
what "it" is, and what "better" could be.

Having to do with education, these questions are contentious. One might study to
get a job, or to achieve great things, or to find inner purpose, or as a matter
of pride, or to please one's parents, or to support them financially, or some
combination of these&mdash;suffice it to say that education has a multiplicity
of functions. To understand education, then, is to identify each of its
functions, and figure out how they are related to one another.

This proto-analysis is similar to (and, in fact, heavily inspired by) Martha
Nussbaum's famous treatment of what is perhaps the most politically charged
concept in Western society today: objectification. Nussbaum writes of America in
1995 that to many, objectification is an idea "used to criticize
advertisements... [and] to express skepticism about the attitudes of one person
to another;"<sup><a href="#note-1">1</a></sup> things haven't changed much
since. Nussbaum gives several examples of sexual objectification in literature.
Although she finds several to be morally questionable, she notes that "at least
one of the texts shows how objectification of a kind might be quite harmless and
even pleasant."<sup><a href="#note-2">2</a></sup> This is curious.  What is it
about some forms of objectification that make it okay, when so many others are,
well, disgusting?

Nussbaum, in answering this question, doesn't make one big cut down the middle,
but "suggest[s] that *at least seven* notions are involved in [the] idea [of
objectification]."<sup><a href="#note-3">3</a></sup> *Seven*? Or *more*? There
is real *structure* to the concept of objectification, says Nussbaum! Not a
simple structure, no, but a complex and nuanced one! It doesn't matter if
you're talking about objectification as in denial of autonomy, or as in
can-be-owned, or as in is-replacable&mdash;Nussbaum's analysis handles it all,
and this way *transcends contention*. Only a careful look at how different
"corners" of this structure function in human interaction allows us to
understand the concept of objectification as a whole and form general insights.

There is no reason to think that similar analysis can't be applied elsewhere to
that effect. Clearly, education is often a good thing&mdash;but if were always a
good thing, why do the compaints at the top seem to be warranted?  Fortunately,
following Nussbaum, we know how to deal with contentious things that are
sometimes good and sometimes bad.

Above, we explored the structure of one's reasons for being educated. Is there
structure in what it means to be educated?  I think there is. Being educated
doesn't always mean having knowledge&mdash;it can also mean being associated
with a prestigious institution, having relevant experience or portfolios, being
certified by law (in the case of lawyers and doctors,) etc. Even knowledge comes
in many forms. Mathematics and dancing, for instance, are different enough kinds
of knowledge that we should never assume a mathematician could dance, or that a
dancer could do mathematics.<sup><a href="#note-4">4</a></sup>

Now that we've given structure to the issue of education, we're better equipped
to form hypotheses. It's easy. Here are three:

1. Prestigious education doesn't necessary imply having knowledge, but people
   often believe so.
2. For many jobs, a solid portfolio seems to be as sufficient for getting an
   interview as having prestige.
3. Lectures aren't the only way to learn mathematics, but lectures are also
   useful for learning why someone like your professor devoted their lives to
   the subject.

We can start even to think about the original issue without contention:

- Are there methods of educating oneself that achieve all the ends one is
  seeking, but don't require performing many "context switches" per day?
- What are all the different ways of "evaluating education"&mdash;knowing when
  one has become "more educated" or when one method of education is more
  "effective" than another&mdash;and which of these require the "context switch"
  kind of learning?

This is a "bring your own perspective" kind of analysis. It doesn't require one
to accept this or that definition of "education" or of "betterness"&mdash;it
accounts for all of them.

This is useful because people have different perspectives sometimes, clearly;
but also because people&mdash;change. When I started school at 18, I truly
wasn't concerned with financially supporting my parents, I didn't need any more
inner purpose, and was excited about achieving "cool" things. In each respect
the tables have turned. I've felt how cool achievements do not reward in
proportion to the suffering that often goes into making them happen; absent the
naive expectation that collecting cool achievements will be rewarding I've been
needing a new "inner purpose"; and as my perspective continues to change over
the years I've seen how my parent's financial stresses have consumed them to the
effect that theirs haven't at all&mdash;it's important that I figure this out.

The sentiment I expressed in my facebook status felt right, in one capacity or
another, to more than 30 people. This is a worthwhile indication that the
phenomenon should be studied. It's fortunate we have "Nussbaumian" tools of
thought which not only help us prepare for changes in our perspective tomorrow,
but give us the ability to value each other's perspectives today.

The discussion continues [in the original
post](https://www.facebook.com/srcreigh/posts/859462034166558) and [via private
message](https://www.facebook.com/srcreigh).

### Notes
1. <span id="note-1">Martha Nussbaum, *Philosophy and Public Affairs*, Fall 1995, pp. 249.
   [](http://www.mit.edu/~shaslang/mprg/nussbaumO.pdf)</span>
2. <span id="note-2">Nussbaum, pp. 256.</span>
3. <span id="note-3">Nussbaum, pp. 257; emphasis mine.</span>
4. <span id="note-4">Some training, however, does seem to be transferable: a
   mathematician can be reasonably expected to make a capable programmer, for
   instance.</span>

