---
template: post.jade
date: 2016-03-24
prettydate: March 24, 2016
title: Eighteen Business Ideas
---

I study computer science and philosophy at the University of Waterloo. More than
fifty thousand UW and Laurier students study here on University Ave. Computer
science and engineering students here have a lot of money. They don't know what
to do with it yet. Arts and business students here have a lot of time. They
don't know what to do with it yet.

Here are eighteen business ideas.

1. Gamified litter cleanup
2. Fashion advising consultancy
3. Tutoring platform where tutors' reward is studying for their final instead of
   money
4. On-demand (< 1 hr) cleaning service
5. Community-powered math and programming problem marking platform
6. <strike>Videocasting (a la Twitch.tv) for Android phones</strike> (*this idea
   wasn't mine*)
7. Omnipresent app text translation for Android phones
8. Messaging app conversation sharing platform
9. Safe, social anxiety free, impromptu event planning and notification platform
10. Programming storytelling platform (think fmylife.com, but the stories are
    programs)
11. Platform to convert emails / IMs into to do list items
12. To do list with how to guides and next steps advising
13. Service to determine which app a screenshot is of
14. Tool to automatically search stack overflow with compiler errors
15. Mobile Chaturbate + Yik Yak + Snapchat face masks
16. Scrape twitter to match consultants with people who are stuck or frustrated
17. Instagram for music: beats, chords, autotune
18. Reddit with PageRanked votes

Contact me via [Facebook](https://fb.com/srcreigh).

