---
template: post.jade
title: Side Projects Talk Notes
date: 2016-11-23
prettydate: November 23, 2016
---

Side projects reveal a lot about a person. Do you do them to learn? To make
money? To meet people? To boost your resume? Do you do short projects, or
6&ndash;12 month ones, or longer? Alone, or with a partner, or with a large
team?

I gave a short talk about side projects tonight to an audience of first-year
Computer Science students at the University of Waterloo. Here are my notes.

<hr />

- Who am I?
  - Shane Creighton-Young
  - Internships
    - Google, LinkedIn
    - Small and large startups
  - Currently at velocity

- What is a side project?
  - "Side"
    - Not a "main" project; something in addition to work and school
  - "Project"
    - Something "carefully planned" and "designed to achieve a particular aim"
    - Root: "throw forth"

- Why would you do a project?
  - Nathaniel said:
    - Learning
    - Boosting your resume
  - But also:
    - Making money
    - Meeting new people
    - See what you like vs don't like
    - Learn what you CAN'T do

- What side projects have I done?
  - [CS 253 on Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/course/web-development--cs253)
  - [Hack the North](www.hackthenorth.com)
  - [QKSMS](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.moez.QKSMS&hl=en)

- When to do side projects?
  - Hackathons
  - Christmas break
  - When you get home from work on ur first co-op

- Tips
  - Don't learn too many things at once
    - Build upon what you know
  - Come up with an actual thing to build, don't just "learn the language"
    - Like Nathaniel, who made a runescape bot and a note manager
    - That's why the cs 253 was a good course --- there's a project at the end of it
  - Talk about your projects to lots of people and ask for feedback
    - This is good for learning and for meeting people
    - Share to Facebook (i.e. Hackathon Hackers, frosh groups)

